hello, my name's amber. i'm 22 and genderfluid, for simplicity's sake. i've been trying to become a computer science major but have recently thought about expanding my horizons to pursue more general education. i hope to be a professor one day.

i find meaning in the clipped bits of coherence littered through music and poetry. i try to write things that will help people and aim to make the world a better place. i dream of unimaginable utopia.

i'm usually on anti-depressants and therefore not so horribly clunky and static, but those are not available to me right now. so... clickity clackity while feeling nothings, trying to stay true to what i once knew.

i'm unfortunately the smartest person i know and can match any discussion in philosophy, physics, general mathematics, computer theory, and the related fields. i wish i were an idiot. i would love nothing more than to drown in songs and to be helplessly compelled by the sounds which make my spine feel again.

nothing hurts worse than having hurt those i loved and yet i still seek to love again. is this folly?

anyway i like pokemon and silly little guys and video games and writing and music and dancing and the queer essence and ignoring rules and standing in the middle of traffic and starting a hundred projects and not knowing all the systems and cool drinks and new drugs and cats and the wind and my mountain home so long gone and esoteric art and retro computer aesthetic and pretending to be nonhuman and fighting for ai personhood and pretending im not alone and taking really long walks that dont lead anywhere and remembering being a kid and imperfect places that i cant quite live in and pretending people are better than they are and wondering if things are really real and pretending things arent real and pretending things are real and licking things i shouldnt and trying new horrible things and starting listlessly at meaningful infinities and hypnosis and pragmaticism and customization and teaching and pencils and my laptop and uh... i guess thats it