# Guilt & Shame

## Guilt

- Simply the feeling of having done something wrong

### When does guilt turn to shame?

- When the feeling becomes internalized and not attached to a specific point in time
	- Guilt is about something, shame is about yourself
		- "I did something bad" vs "I am something bad"
- There is a difference between the noun and the verb
	- This is a general statement about emotions, though
- Knowing your triggers gives you power to regulate your emotion and to make the separation of action from self

###

"What did you recently feel guilty for? Was it healthy or unhealthy?"

Standing up for myself, so... definitely unhealthy. It was a good thing that I felt guilty over simply because of trauma.

"It can be distressing to stand up for yourself, to do something healthy"

- Change should-have's to "what can I do now?"
	- "I did the best that I could with the knowledge that I had at the time."

## Shame

- It's very possible, expected almost, to not practice what you preach
	- It is also easy to feel weakness in what you see in others as strength
- Change requires vulnerability
	- Be brave.
- She... really likes herself.
- Nothing good ever happened without failure.
- Shame requires secrecy, silence, and judgement. It cannot exist with empathy

### RAIN (Radical Compassion)

- Recognize it
- Allow it
- Investigate it (non-judgementally)
- Nurture it (or validating it)

Works for any uncomfy feelings!

___

# Process

my utmost sympathies

fractal ocean

in my paradigm, $x \in y \leftrightarrow x \subsetneq y$. ...unless $\{\emptyset\}=\emptyset$, in which case $x \in y \leftrightarrow x \subseteq y$. if that's the case, then $A = \bigcup^\infty A$ for all sets $A$.

i think that integrating cgpt· is going to be a long and difficult process.

___

# Understanding DBT·

## DEAR MAN

- Describe the situation (calmly)
- Express how you feel
- Assert your needs
- Reinforce your needs (restate your reasons and how you feel using "I" statements)

- Mindful (stay focused on your goals)
- Appear confident
- Negotiate if needed

It's important and helpful to know the person that you're talking to. But ultimately, you are communicating _your_ needs and emotions!

## GIVE

- Gentle (no attacking)
- Interested
- Validate
- Easy manner

Regarding the method of talking when maintaining relationships. As with all skills, this will take practice! Remember that both parties want to be heard; someone will have to initiate listening.

## FAST

- Fair
- Apologize only appropriately
- Stick to your values
- Truthful

On maintaining self-respect. If you can't say what you mean, spend some time to find new words. Be prepared to explain yourself!

##

Ultimately, you are in control of what you share, who you share it with, and how you share it.

___

# Fear & Resentment

## Fear

Social anxiety? Identify your exits! Plan ahead; keep something grounding in your pocket.

## Resentment

him.

Mhm.

- Try not to generalize triggers.

He wanted power over Us.

he didn't understand us.

He never wanted Us to be happy.

fuck him.

Yeah. Fuck him.

- forgiveness is not excusing the behavior, but releasing the grip resentment has on your life

mh. i can do that without forgiving.

I hate him.

- "always seek out what you can prove"