# Identifying Emotions

- emotions can be decomposed into more base parts
	- see emotion wheel
- body language can convey emotions if you learn to pick them up. you can also learn how you project your emotions subconsciously. however, it is not a sure thing! the same signal can carry different meaning in different individuals and at different times
- tension and emotions are physically stored in parts of the body. this is why guided meditation and muscle relaxation are effective
- redirecting movements is effective; if you're moving a lot because you're anxious, get a fidget toy! just be mindful to not annoy the people around you
	- intentional breathing is different from automatic breathing
- different people experience emotions differently
- do your best to manage your negative emotions while they are still low. it's possible to manage them when they're high, but it's much more difficult. it's easiest to notice emotions when they are outside of their normal range; it will take practice and intentionality to notice emotions at their resting point or slightly off of it
	- don't pressure yourself to get it right the first time! it's a learning process
		- it's okay to ask for help :)
- "is it worth me responding the way i normally responded?"

everyone is different in beautiful ways <3

- listening is very powerful

___

# Process group

- pieces can be made to temporarily conform for synergistic effects even if they are naturally antagonistic
- users are one of the worst threats to an attempt at sobriety

is there anything i wanna process?

>i feel abandoned, and the future is uncertain. i want to get back on the meds that work for me. i miss being excited for things. i miss emotions. i wanna go back to school. i wanna go back to normal. i wanna go back to happy

...i guess so. but i dunno if i can say it. or if anyone here could help with any of it. ...i guess i can say it, just not very loud. 'n' you gotta talk loud to do this group.

...oh, here's one. i really, really don't want to go to group. i hate wasting my own time and i hate being around loud people.

## What do you feel like you need next?

freedom. quiet.

___

